(09 -
917
Agric. Gaz. NSW 3(10) 761. 1932.
r 1, 1932.
Oct. 1, 1932.]
Agricultural Gazette of N.S.II'
761
ARE WE PRODUCING THE RIGHT Type OF RICE ?
Iy Nisecent book on the East Indies, Mr. Ambrose Pratt seriously
criticises Australin for growing rice varieties which have no export value.
He states that in the course of the centuries of rice cultivation innumerable
rarieties of rice hare been produced, and amongst a vast majority of Oriental
peoples there has long been firmly established a demand for the harder types
of rice, which they prefer to any other The Eastern peoples, especially the
Chinese, unless forced by circumstances. will not use or eat the softer
grains. and their cultivntion in the Fast has long since been practically
abandoned. The advice is given that Australia should abandon the cultiva-
tion of the grain nt present produced in the Commonwealth and grow only
the rarieties which have yielded the best results in Siam.
On the establishment of the Plant Breeding Branch of this Department
in 1927, one of that Branch's first actions was to introduce varieties of rice
from practically every rice-growing country in the world, with the object
of securing those of the best yield and quality for local conditions or for
breeding purposes. Amongst others, samples were obtained from the Fede-
rated Mlalar States and these were thoroughly tested in tho breeding plots
at Yanco. The result was most disappointing, as none of these rices even
came into head by the time the varieties already in use were ripe. The
same fate has befallen the rarieties which were brought back from Siam
by Mr, Pratt in 1930.
A very exhaustive series of tests, made with several hundred varietie3
and many different types of rice from practically every rice-growing country
throughout Murrumbidgee the Irrigation word, has Area established must grow the the fact short-grained, that for the soft, present Japanese the
types of rice represented by the varicties Caloro and Colusa, which have
proved far more successful from the standpoint of yield than any other
varieties or types. In common with other temperate. countries such as
California, China, Italy and Spain, New South Wales is compelled to grow
these early-maturing productive varieties and cannot produce the Patna
tpe nor the Carolina (southern U.S.A.) type, which is of later maturity,
although of superior quality.
The comparatively goft Australian rice of the. Murrumbidgee Irrign-
tion Area has now mostly fitted into Australian requirements since it has
been recognised be the housewife that it requires n much briefer cooking
period than the harder-grained Patna rice which she formerly used.
It is well recognised by the Department, however, that for export pur-
poses the harder, ong-grained type of rice brings a higher price on the
korid's markets. As a.mntter of fact, it is not the Patnn or the Siamese
rice, but the Carolina rice of southern U.S.A. which is most highly valued
Plant in world trade. Intensive tests.and observations made by the Department's
Breeder at Yanco (Mfr. Poggendorff) show that the best of these
Carolina trpes are still somewhat too late maturing and not sufficiently
productive for the Murrumbidgee Trrigation Aren, though there are indica-
tions that some earlier selections may prove useful. Still greater success,
which will combine the earliness and productiveness of the Caloro and
howerer is expected from the evolution of new varieties by cross breeding,
Colusa varieties with the excellent grain qualities of the Carolina type.
Department. Very promising headway in this field of work is now being made by the
